MALE RADIO HOST:
...Oh, come on.
Good morning to you...
...and now that we've had
our coffee
and traffic and more coffee
let's get an answer
to this question, Sally.
SALLY: Okay, okay, in all fairness...
okay, hold on.
HOST: No, no, no, our audience has
to know what the question is.
The question is:
You have to carpool to work...
WOMAN:
I do carpool to work!
HOST: Oh, well, that's news to me.
(gasps)
(tires screech)
Oh!
Oh! No, no, no, no!
(sighs)
I guess
it could have been worse.
MAN:
The light was red, lady.
Hi! I am so sorry.
I'm on the way to school
'cause I'm a teacher--
first grade-- and I was
doing my makeup in the car
'cause I overslept.
Not that I wear
a lot of makeup.
I'm actually more of a
teacher-slash-singer.
And...
What, what's going on
with your truck?
Is that a...
...bomb?
(car horns honking)
(car alarm blaring)
♪ NCIS: LA 3x20 ♪
Patriot Acts
Original Air Date on April 10, 2012
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
♪
KENSI:
I am so tired.
NELL:
Crazy. You were going nuts.
I know. It was exciting.
It was fun. It was-- ah!
You know what?
Who knew?
I knew.
Stick with me, kid.
Morning.
Wait, what?
You guys hang out together?
Nell and I? Yeah.
You do? They do?
- Down, boy.
- I mean, because you guys are like,
you're like work friends.
- Here he goes.
- Oh, that must be it.
You're like us,
you know what I mean?
You go out after work
for a casual brewski
like, like we do.
Nope.
Nell and I made plans
a few weeks ago.
I think he's starting to drool.
Yeah, I'm starting to see it
right on the right corner there.
Oh, no, okay, I get it.
Even bad-ass Blye
needs a little...
"female bonding time,"
is that it?
There's no turning back now.
You guys probably
went shopping for jeans,
took a Zumba class,
stopped afterwards for
a little frozen yogurt.
What? You know I don't eat
frozen yogurt.
Uh-huh, and those
are not new jeans.
SAM: He knows every pair
of her jeans.
CALLEN:
What, you don't know mine?
I know you got new rims
on your Jag.
That was a lucky guess.
You're questioning my attention
to automotive detail?
By the way,
your front left tire--
looks about two PSI low.
Okay, now you're
just showing off.
Guys, guys, we need to get back
to what's important here.
Our friend Kensi
went to an all-ladies
fitness dance party last night.
You know, I support Kensi
expressing herself artistically.
Gives her an outlet for the
frustrations of the job.
Especially since she has
to spend every day with you.
KENSI: Thank you.
I actually appreciate
that you guys noticed this.
McKenzie, you are stronger
than Sam and I combined.
(whistle tooting jauntily)
What was that?
It's my homage to
Captain Von Trapp.
Mm-hmm.
ERIC:
Sound of Music.
Aw, come on.
Gazebos, Nazis, yodeling nun?
Must have missed that one.
Must be right at the top
of my Netflix cue.
You know, there is a sing-a-long
coming up at the Bowl.
(inhales)
Busy.
DEEKS: Guys, that movie
is a classic.
KENSI: Wait, is that one
where people sing in the rain?
DEEKS: No, that's
Singing in the R... ah.
SAM: Good boy, good boy.
No, no, that's inappropriate touching.
I don't like inappropriate
touching-- neither does Hetty.
SAM: Hetty told me
to keep you in line.
(Kensi laughs)
Go.
Uh, the FBI just released this
to all the major news outlets.
Earlier this morning, the
FBI apprehended Gavin Knowles,
a man, we suspect, planned to
detonate an explosive device
in the city of Los Angeles.
With his arrest, I'm proud
to announce the FBI
thwarted an act of terrorism
against our great nation.
The FBI moved in after a bomb
detonated in Knowles truck.
And he lived
to tell the tale?
NELL: Apparently,
the device started smoking
after this car rear-ended him.
And Knowles abandoned the
vehicle before the explosion.
Well, if it was smoking,
it was probably a chemical bomb.
And if a fender-bender
triggered it,
means it was highly unstable.
Okay, two questions:
Who is Gavin Knowles,
and how does he know how to make
third rate chemical bombs?
ERIC: That, I don't know.
But what I do know,
is that he was a former Marine.
A medical discharge under
honorable conditions
after an IED took out most of
his squad in Afghanistan.
And no formal training
with explosives?
Could have taught himself.
Give folks a taste
of what life is like
across the Afghan border.
What kind of trouble
has Knowles been in
since he's been state side?
Few scrapes with the LAPD, but
nothing that would have
predicted this.
If you can predict this.
Initial thoughts?
How do we not know about
a terrorist plot,
right here in L.A.?
Something about this just
doesn't feel right.
Because you smell
foul play, Mr. Callen,
or because you didn't
find Gavin Knowles first?
DEEKS:
Ooh...
and that's why they call her
Henrietta the Hammer.
Straight up, Mr. Deeks.
I just got off the phone with
Assistant Director Granger.
The man's apoplectic that the
FBI got this collar, and not us.
After all, Gavin Knowles
is a former Marine.
Granger's apoplectic?
Oh, I heard a vein pop,
Mr. Hanna.
No joke, I've witnessed this two
or three times in the field.
I know what to listen for.
KENSI: So, what does
Granger want us to do?
FBI already made the arrest.
HETTY: Granger wants you
to find what you missed.
And what the FBI didn't.
Well, that seems
like a great use of
our national security
resources.
CALLEN:
No, guys, Granger's right.
We should have been
all over this.
Smell that?
Chlorine.
Chemical bomb,
just like I thought.
Hey, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa.
Hold it right there.
Special Agent
Jonas Ambrose, FBI.
Agent Callen, NCIS.
I need to see your I.D.
That goes for all of you.
Agent Hinty,
get their I.D. number.
Okay.
Don't, uh...
take anything.
We also need to
speak to Knowles.
He's in FBI custody.
You're not going to
let us question
the prime suspect
in a terrorist plot?
Well, I don't have
a problem, so long as you
fill out and file
the correct paperwork.
Takes about three weeks
to process it
before you get an answer,
which will still be no.
You know our agencies typically
work together, right?
Well, I don't make the rules,
I just live by them.
Hinty.
(cell phone ringing)
When do we get to
sit down with Knowles?
According to the FBI handbook
over there, we don't.
Well, nobody was hurt,
Knowles is behind bars,
so that's good.
Or very bad...
if there's more
unstable bombs out there.
Why do I always have to be the
hopeless optimist on this team?
Probably because you're the only
one that watches musicals.
Losing out on our own
territory to that guy,
no wonder
Granger's is pissed.
The evidence so far says
Knowles is the guy.
Well, that's what
the evidence says.
(chuckles)
Nate!
SAM: Nate.
The FBI has
got this one wrong.
So, after we
saw you in Yemen...
Okay, after Yemen
was Venezuela,
then Russia and Turkey.
Oh, South Africa then Turkey.
And half a dozen
stops in between.
That you're not
at liberty to discuss.
Profilers are in
demand these days.
SAM: You must be
flying first class,
racking up all those miles.
CALLEN: Warm chocolate chip
cookies taste
so much better at 30,000 feet.
Pssh! I wouldn't know.
Ow! Really?
I'm training Deeks
to not make himself
the center of every
conversation.
- With pain?
- With proven scientific methods.
So, what brings you in
from Turkey?
Joint FBI task force to help
identify domestic terrorists.
So, is Ambrose a part
of this task force?
Yes, he's the one who helped
zero in on Gavin Knowles.
And?
Ambrose is a decent agent,
but this arrest plus
the FBI announcement
that they prevented
some terrorist plot
are premature at best.
And I take it Ambrose wasn't
interested in your opinion?
I thought you guys might be.
Right, as always, Nate.
But, your insight isn't
going to do us much good
unless we can find a way
to question Gavin.
And I take it, breaking into
the FBI is off the table?
SAM:
For now.
Gavin's apartment's
different story.
All right,
Deeks and I will take
the diner where he
got arrested.
Hey.
Big Nate.
Yeah.
Nate?!
Nell! Hi!
Eric!
Nate... What's up man? (chuckles)
I can't believe you're here.
Wow, I want to hear all about
your travel adventures.
And, um, I meant to send you
that care package but,
I'm sorry-- I hope
my e-mails have been enough.
Not this guy again.
Ambrose's lackey.
We play the Hetty card?
It won't work.
He's so green, he won't
know who she is yet.
Then we use that.
Ego, thy name is Agent Fresh
Out Of The Academy.
(chuckles)
Don't tell me Ambrose
has you standing watch
out here.
There could be valuable evidence
inside Knowles' apartment.
Guarding a scene's
an invaluable skill.
Took me two whole days to teach
my Doberman the same thing.
How long you been
out of the academy?
Almost six weeks.
Ambrose obviously doesn't
recognize talent. Unless...
what did you say when he told
you not to let us inside?
How did you know
he said that?
You heard the man;
answer him.
I... I didn't ask why.
There you have it.
Ambrose is right.
We're dealing with
an empty suit here.
A real live yes man.
Uh... uh...
Only thing left on my list is Bigfoot.
I-I'm not a yes man, okay?
It's okay, all right?
SAM: He'll go a long way.
As long as
Ambrose is his boss.
And some people are
better at following orders
than giving them, so...
Good point.
Hey! I'm in charge here.
You got five minutes.
Okay.
Be right out.
Let's be quick before
he changes his mind.
AMBROSE: Don't even
think about it.
(sighs)
You two just crossed the line.
We were invited
to cross.
It's called
cooperation, Ambrose.
Then cooperate
by filing the proper paperwork.
You want the
form number?
No, we're good.
That's nice.
Menus are at the counter.
The soup of the day is,
uh, corn chowder.
You can sit wherever
you'd like, okay?
Sorry, it's been
a little nuts here today.
No, it's fine.
We're actually here
about the man the FBI
arrested this morning.
Oh. You guys are
a little bit late.
Wackos already cleared
the place out.
The only memorabilia I got left
is the pepper shaker he used,
but I can give that
to you for a great price.
Sorry. How's that?
No judgment.
Just, go ahead.
Check and see
what it's going for online.
Yeah. That's not
going to happen.
We're federal agents.
Is that a real...?
DEEKS: Was Gavin Knowles
a regular here?
Yeah.
Yeah, uh, he'd come by
all the time.
Always wanted to sit
in Mia's section.
Mia?
Um...
Goth chick,
doesn't share tips.
Okay. Thanks.
KENSI:
Mia?
We'd like to ask you
some questions
about Gavin Knowles.
You guys FBI?
NCIS-- FBI's hipper
younger brother.
Gavin's innocent, you know.
Did he say anything
about what happened to
his truck this morning?
He was freaked out.
That bomb really
brought it back.
The IED that took out his squad
in Afghanistan?
Gavin came back a little broken,
but he's getting help.
And even at his worst,
he would never terrorize
innocent people
with what he went through
over there.
Well, how long
have you known for?
We've been dating
about six months.
I'd say you kind of buried
the lead there.
I didn't want our relationship
to cloud the issue.
Ah.
Gavin's innocent.
There's no way
that was his bomb.
But you're still at work?
Who could afford not to be?
KENSI:
Has he been upset,
or acting strangely lately?
No.
Nothing out of the ordinary
for a combat veteran
who saw all of his friends die
in an IED explosion.
- Okay.
- Thank you.
Can I give you my number in case
you think of anything else?
Yeah.
If you hear anything about
Gavin, will you let me know?
- Sure. Give me your number.
- Okay.
You know, he was using
Mia's phone.
What?
The bomber dude.
Came in here looking
kind of rattled;
used Mia's phone
to make some calls.
MIA:
If I think of anything,
I'll call you.
Thank you.
No problem.
Hey, Eric, I need you
to look up a cell phone number
and trace every call made
between the time
the bomb went off
and when Gavin was arrested.
The name is.. Mia Jameson.
The number is 555-0127.
ERIC:
Okay, got it.
There were just two calls,
both to an auto garage.
What do we got?
I'm putting you on speaker.
DEEKS: Gavin used his girlfriend's
cell phone
to call a garage
this morning... twice.
Gavin's profile suggests
he's not the loner type.
Well, maybe he
wasn't working alone.
Deeks, you and Kensi
go check it out.
We'll update Hetty.
Okay. We're on it.
Let's go.
You know, I'm feeling a little,
uh, antsy this morning,
so I'm gonna go work it
on out at the gym.
Mm-hmm.
In those?
Uh, yeah, I always
work out in these.
They build...
arch support.
Oh.
(quiet laugh)
Okay.
So...
(clears throat)
So, you're back.
Yeah, I'm back.
Hmm.
For a little while.
That's cool, man.
Why are you looking
at me like that?
I'm pretty sure you were
flirting with me this morning.
- What?!
- Yeah.
(laughs)
No. That's my signature
welcome-back-buddy-hug thing.
That's... standard issue.
Now why are you
looking at me like that?
'Cause you're definitely not
flirting with me now.
Now that, uh...
we're alone.
(laughs)
You think the hug thing
had something to do with...
Eric?
Oh, that's... that's good.
(laughs)
Oh, yeah. No, that's
hilarious, actually.
Nell, I get paid
to read people
for a living, but, uh...
a 12-year-old could figure out
what you're doing.
Okay.
You know what?
You've been gone a little
too long, my friend.
I'll say that.
I mean, Eric?
Really, we're
talking about Eric.
Okay, Eric?
Going to stop
saying Eric now.
You can run, but I'm already
in your head, Little Nell.
Still got it.
DEEKS:
I keep forgetting the name
of the club that you
and Nell were at last night.
It was the, um...
Oh, you almost got
me with that one.
Just saying,
we're partners, you know?
I should know what my partner
is up to at all time for...
for safety's sake.
For safety?
That's right.
Okay, where were
you last night?
Shh. Do you hear that?
(scoffing):
Yeah.
It's the sound of you
changing the subject.
No, no, no, it's a bike.
(motorcycle revving)
Make that plural.
Bikes-zzz.
And here we go.
(engines revving)
Kensi and I are at the garage.
They got something
going down.
HETTY:
My thoughts exactly, Mr. Deeks.
We've had an anonymous tip.
A terrorist group claimed
it was responsible
for this morning's car bomb,
and not Gavin Knowles.
And they warned that there are
more bombs on the way.
We're tracking the source
of the tip right now.
Can we keep it quiet?
Unfortunately,
no.
It seems the news outlets
got wind of it.
Mr. Beale?
A radical terrorist group
has threatened
to attack the city
of Los Angeles by day's end...
Does that mean
Gavin's innocent?
I don't know, but get ready for
a lot of really nervous people.
Which is exactly
the point.
First the FBI,
now the media.
Playing right into
the terrorists' hands.
(sighs)
You guys just don't quit.
Nate, I expected
more from you.
I personally recruited you
to the joint task force,
but it appears you've gone over
to the dark side.
There really aren't
supposed to be sides.
Our directors asked
us to work together.
Well, unfortunately,
the FBI has already
closed the book on this one.
Even though there could
still be more bombs out there?
Look, if the case is closed,
what is the fear
in letting us speak
to Knowles?
Fine.
But Nate is the one
to interview Knowles
as part of the joint task force.
Now, was that so hard?
That mirror works
two ways, you know.
So any information you get
from him helps me, too.
Understand what I'm saying?
All right, Nate.
Signal's strong.
I'll make sure to let them know.
NATE:
Hello, Gavin.
I'm Nate Getz.
I'm a psychologist.
Was wondering
when they'd make me talk
to one of you.
Talked to psychologists before?
Afghanistan, maybe?
After the explosion?
Is that why
you were medically discharged?
Remind him it was an
honorable discharge.
No shame there.
You were honorably discharged.
If it makes...
I had nothing to do
with that bomb.
Then how did it get
in the back of your truck?
I don't know.
Someone must have planted it.
Who would do that to you?
- How am I supposed to know?!
- You don't know
who'd put a bomb
in the back of your truck?
I told you, I don't know.
Gavin, I'm here
to help you...
...but you have
to want me to help you.
And that starts
by you telling the truth.
Don't start
with the psychobabble.
They had a mark on my head,
and now they've got me
right where they want me.
Okay.
Who might that be?
Isn't it obvious?
The FBI.
NATE: What does the FBI have
to do with this?
Where can I start?
(door opening)
Okay, we're done here.
Well, no-- I just started
interviewing him.
The suspect is
clearly paranoid.
This won't be
a productive conversation
for anyone. Come on.
- You can't just...
- You can try again later.
Gavin... Gavin...
Wait!
What do you think?
His anger's a
coping mechanism.
So Gavin is
some shell-shocked vet
who's turned
against his own country?
It's not totally
out of the question,
but I think there's
something else going on here.
He left
the Marines to escape
the nightmare of IEDs.
Doesn't make sense for him to
start building them on his own.
Well, unless it's his way
of confronting his fears,
like some sort of
a... aversion therapy.
Only one thing's for sure.
Ambrose got spooked.
Ambrose.
KENSI:
What have we got, guys?
Nell and I finished
analyzing the photos
you took at the auto garage.
Most of these guys have
been in and out of prison,
but have gone
radio silent lately.
Maybe they've gone into
planning mode for something big.
Domestic terrorism?
LAPD deals with these guys
all the time--
assault, demolition, B & E.
I wouldn't put it
past them.
In that case, what's
your stance on chaps?
Never on a first date.
Well, almost never.
(engines revving)
You know how wolves can smell
the tiniest drop of fear?
Yeah.
And when they do,
they attack without mercy?
Wolves' den?
Wolves' den.
Relax. We're gonna be fine.
Just saying.
We could be walking into
the middle of a terrorist cell.
Kensi, we are highly-trained
operatives, all right?
Equipped with the skill
and experience to blend in
to even the most
dangerous of situations.
They're not gonna
give us a second look.
(hard rock music blaring)
Fellas...
Cop! He's a cop!
Was it the chaps?
Get him!
Federal agents!
Don't move!
(panting)
Who's a wolf now?
(motorcycle revving outside)
I got this. Go!
Sorry about the table.
(groans)
(sighs)
Harold.
My main man Harold.
Maude, no!
Maude?
Harold, you named
your bike Maude?
Get up.
I always knew you had
a sensitive side.
Let's go.
So how is it that you
two know each other?
What, Harold here?
I arrested him a few years back
for B-and-E.
Ain't that right, Harold?
I'm a free man, Deeks.
You can't keep me here.
Yeah, you're a free man
on parole.
And I know that you know that
hanging out with known felons
is a big parole no-no.
Come on, man.
They're my friends.
Friends don't let
friends go back to jail.
What do you know
about Gavin Knowles?
Who?
DEEKS:
You really prepared
to abandon Maude
in her time of need?
Yeah, that's right.
Spartacus over here
named his bike Maude.
All right, what were you
guys up to in the bar?
Nothing.
We were playing pool.
You know, my kid sister's
actually, uh,
in the market for a motorcycle.
But she's a first-time rider, so
I'm sure she's gonna lay it down
a half dozen times or so...
Man...
Harold...
Word is...
there's a terrorist group.
Right here in L.A.
Really? That's the generic crap
you're feeding us?
And it's the truth!
Did I mention
my sister's farsighted?
Okay! Okay!
(sighs)
Someone's been asking for...
demolition advice.
You mean a
chemical bomb.
Chemical bomb?
Nuh-uh.
Someone's been asking around
about how to make
a compact bomb.
Size of a pack of cigarettes.
DEEKS:
Who's asking?
I don't know.
I swear.
KENSI: Who was asking
about a compact bomb?
Think he's telling
the truth.
I agree.
Gavin had a chemical bomb
in his truck.
What's he going to do
with a compact bomb?
Pick a target,
hide it, trigger it.
Bomb like that is used to
take out someone specific.
ERIC:
Guys.
Something you should see.
This is coming to you live.
The FBI believes
this anonymous tip
to be nothing more than a hoax.
We've confirmed that
Gavin Knowles acted alone
and are not pursuing
any additional suspects.
That's a dangerous
bluff to call,
especially if there's a
terrorist group still out there.
Maybe they're trying
to smoke them out.
That's the problem.
Makes them act
with more urgency.
I think it's time Kensi and
Deeks had another chat with Mia.
Find out what she knows
about Gavin's friends.
And enemies.
(rap music playing inside)
Mia?
No sign of distress.
Who leaves without
locking their door in L.A.?
No sign she left in a hurry.
Hah! Guess what
instrument she plays.
Uh, drums.
No, electric guitar.
No, no, no--
electric keyboard guitar.
Final answer.
Ooh.
Jumbo violin was going to be
my next guess.
Wow.
Got a goth chick
on the outside
and a sexy nerd
on the inside.
Mm-hmm.
Make that a sexy nerd
with skills.
That's some serious string work
keeping our waitress
up at night.
You can tell that
from a sheet of music?
I grew up playing the violin.
(camera clicks)
What?
Yeah.
I'm only part Neanderthal.
What now?
That Jag felt a little
more balanced.
It's in your head.
Put more air in
that front tire, didn't you?
Give it a rest.
(chuckles)
What is it about this one?
We don't know who
or what's out there.
It doesn't help that Ambrose
is keeping us in the dark.
Can't shake the feeling that
he's hiding something from us.
Hey... I was able to trace
the anonymous tip
to an address in Hollywood.
Where is it?
It's a big abandoned building
surrounded by
empty parking lots.
Address on your phones.
What are you thinking?
Great place for an ambush.
(car alarm wailing)
You okay?
Yeah. You?
Must have been
remote detonated.
No, I set it off
when I checked the lock.
Guess Gavin isn't working alone.
Nate was right.
The FBI got it wrong.
Only way to get ahead
of this terrorist plot
is to figure out the endgame.
The first chemical bomb went
off after a car accident.
It almost killed Gavin and
the woman who rear-ended him.
But the bomb was meant
to detonate somewhere else.
CALLEN:
Second chemical bomb
triggered by a pressure sensor
on the gate.
No one was hurt
by that one either.
Maybe it's by design.
Maybe they're trying
to get our attention.
Could be an extortion scheme.
You know, "This is
what we can do.
"Now you pay us
or the next time,
it's gonna be at the Staples
Center during a Clippers game."
If there is a third,
it may not be
a car bomb like the first two.
Someone's been asking
our biker friends how to make
small compact bombs,
which are much easier to hide.
And take out a specific target.
So the car used in
the second bombing was stolen
after Gavin's arrest.
Ooh, okay, that means
Gavin wasn't acting alone.
We assumed that he used
Mia's phone to call the garage,
but she could have
made those calls herself.
Which, in retrospect,
actually makes much more sense.
We need to find this girl.
NELL: You don't know the half of it.
It's gonna be hard.
Her phone's turned off,
and there's no record
of Mia Jameson
until six years ago.
She created a new identity.
Okay, so what happened
six years ago?
I don't know, but I do
know where to start.
'Cause this is not the
kind of cello you abandon
just because you're
going off the grid.
And my guess
is she's still
having it serviced
at the same place.
All right.
Stay in touch.
Hey, so, um,
how is it, um,
how is it being back?
Oh, actually
it's-it's kind of hard.
- Like, I haven't seen anyone...
- That's great.
Um, so what did you mean
before when you said
I was flirting with you
only in front of Eric?
Oh. Oh, I just...
Because, trust me,
there is nothing going on
there between me and Eric.
I mean, I think of
him like my brother.
- Yeah...
- And I do not have feelings
for my brother.
You think I have
feelings for my brother.
Do I have feelings
for my brother?
Or do I only consciously
think of Eric like my brother
and I subconsciously think
of him as something else?
Is-is that what
you're trying to say?
This was a good talk.
Yeah.
I'm gonna go.
And... yeah.
So do you recognize
this instrument?
Oh!
I string and re-string
this bambina for 15 years.
Do you know its owner,
Mia Jameson?
You mean Jessica, eh?
Um, blonde hair,
dark clothes, nose piercing?
Yeah.
Nose, the nose
thing she puts in.
And I say, why?
Why do you put this-this thing
in your punim, eh?
Does Jessica still own
the cello?
Of course!
I service just last month.
Fantastic.
Come this way.
All right.
I-I don't trust
computers,
at all.
Too many bugs, eh?
I have all my receipts
right here.
Yes.
Proof.
Thank you.
Do you, do you have
any older receipts
that we can look at, by chance?
What is this about, huh?
We think Jessica
needs our help.
We could use your help
to find her.
Hmm.
Mia or Jessica.
Still a good kid.
That address is in Bel Air.
Could be that's
where she grew up.
Thank you.
(line ringing)
Callen, we got an
address for you.
(doorbell rings)
Let's try the back.
(rap music playing)
Uh, excuse me.
A little to the left.
NCIS.
NCIS!
Do you live here?
Uh, no.
I'm just house-sitting
for Mr. and Mrs. Evans
until they return on Sunday.
They're not coming home early,
are they?
We need to
speak to them.
Well, good luck with that.
It's their phone-free
anniversary.
They didn't
even tell me
where they were going.
Do you know their
daughter Jessica?
No. Do you?
All the maid's told me is that
she ran away in high school.
I'm not supposed
to ask about it.
And they haven't
touched her bedroom since.
- It's totally creepy, right?
- Mm.
We're gonna need to
see that bedroom.
Whatever
Check it out.
Law books.
For a high school student?
There's Jessica playing soccer.
Jessica striking her
Charlie's Angels pose.
She was in the
youth orchestra.
Here's Jessica and
her boyfriend, looks like.
He could've been
the reason she ran away.
Maybe why mom and dad
don't want any questions asked.
This is Rafi Janatpour.
He and Mia
were both part of
the Mulholland Youth Orchestra.
Mia played cello,
Rafi first violin.
And...
The FBI arrested him
as a suspected terrorist...
six years ago.
CALLEN:
Where's Rafi now?
ERIC:
Deceased.
While he was awaiting trial
his fellow inmates murdered
him in the name of patriotism.
He was Muslim.
NELL: And we haven't even got
to the juicy part yet.
The FBI agent who
cut his teeth on Rafi's case...
Ambrose.
The plot thickens.
Eric, zoom in
on this picture?
ERIC: FBI identified this guy
as Zachary Cole.
Deeks.
That's the busboy from
the diner where Mia works,
only he said his name
was Adam Malnick.
Searching for him now.
Okay, it looks like
Zachary Cole
became Adam Malnick
six years ago.
He changed his identity
the same time Mia did.
So they were working
together all this time
and Rafi was
the common denominator.
CALLEN: Mia and Adam think
that the FBI arrested
an innocent man when
they put Rafi behind bars.
KENSI: An innocent man
who's now dead.
This was never about terrorism.
These two are out for revenge.
DEEKS: I doubt Adam's
gonna try to sell us
any memorabilia this time.
KENSI:
I know.
We should've taken it
when we had the chance.
You mean before we realized
he was a revenge-seeking
psychopath?
Yeah, that was our window.
(grunts)
Sounds like you
dropped something.
Hope you don't have
to pay for what you break.
Well done, Agents,
very well done.
I'd give you a slow clap,
but my hands are tied.
You find this amusing?
Yeah, a little bit.
Step up.
You enjoy
terrorizing people?
Making them scared to
step outside in the morning?
You're giving me
too much credit, man.
I just built
the bombs, all right?
It was the FBI
and the media
that went through
all the trouble
of telling
everybody about him.
Where's Mia?
She's exactly where
she's supposed to be.
Where is Mia?!
I don't know.
But Agent Ambrose might.
Why would Ambrose know?
'Cause he's Mia's target.
(line ringing)
This is FBI Agent Jonas Ambrose.
I can't come
to the phone right now,
but leave a message,
I'll call you back.
Straight to voicemail.
(line ringing)
Yeah.
Eric.
Mia must have baited Ambrose
into meeting her.
He's not answering
his phone.
I'm using Ambrose's cell phone
to track him now.
He's got an encrypted FBI phone.
It's gonna take me a minute.
If we find Ambrose,
we find Mia.
If we find Mia
we find the third bomb.
Okay...
here's Jessica and Rafi,
but I don't see Adam
in the orchestra picture.
ERIC: Maybe he wasn't
in the orchestra.
Maybe they all went
to high school together.
But his phone has
the orchestra sticker on it.
Well, maybe it wasn't his phone.
So the FBI arrested Rafi
because they linked
his cell phone
to conversations
about chemical bombs.
Somebody else could've
made the call
using Rafi's phone.
Like this punk.
Could've framed Rafi
to take the blame.
He could be doing
the same thing to Mia now.
This time she's
the innocent victim.
You're the one that used Mia's
phone to call the garage
this morning, aren't you?
NELL:
Guys, Jessica Evans, aka Mia,
filed petition after petition
with the courts
until Rafi was killed.
Mia's law books.
She tried to prove
Rafi's innocence.
And this guy?
He pretended he was crushed
by Rafi's unjust murder.
Then he recruits Mia to help
him prove a point to the FBI.
They go underground,
trick the FBI
into arresting
an easy mark like Gavin...
then detonate another bomb
to prove the FBI wrong.
Tell us when
we're getting warm.
NATE:
Guys, Mia
would want the FBI
to admit its mistake,
if it didn't hurt anyone.
Except for the fact
you took too much pleasure
in tricking the FBI
the first time.
You want to do
it again, huh?
CALLEN:
Even if it meant
sacrificing Mia.
Where'd you plant
the other bomb?!
Well, that would take all the...
fun out of it.
Found him.
At least his phone.
Ambrose is headed
to Verdugo Park.
We're on our way.
Get in the car.
ERIC: Ambrose is headed
to the baseball field.
Does he have
anyone with him?
That'd be a negative.
Because he thinks Mia's
just there to talk.
Mia probably
is there to talk.
She doesn't know Adam's
planted a bomb on her.
So where would he
have put it?
Mia would want the FBI
to admit its mistake.
That Rafi was innocent.
And she'd want that
on record.
Tape recorder.
(phone rings)
We're at the park.
Which way, Eric?
Baseball field.
Straight ahead.
Guys,
look for a tape recorder.
I think that's where
the bomb could be.
She's got something
behind her back.
Callen, what the hell?
Ambrose, she's got a bomb.
SAM: Mia, do not turn
on that recorder.
KENSI:
Listen to us, Mia.
I already have.
CALLEN:
Mia, do not move.
Do not take your finger
off that button.
It's gonna be okay, Mia.
I'm gonna take
it off you.
Do not let it go
until I've got it.
SAM:
Okay.
Run, Mia! Run!
Go.
You got a plan?
- Nope.
- You gonna throw it?
Nope.
- Do we all need to be here?
- Nope.
AMBROSE: I'll, uh,
take care of Mia.
SAM: I need something
to hold the button.
A bobby pin--
I got it, I got it.
You guys know what
you're doing?
Got no idea.
Okay.
Back away. Back away.
Go, go, go, go.
Back away.
KENSI: Come on, Sam.
Sam, come on.
Sam, let's go!
MIA: I swear, I swear
I didn't know
it was a bomb.
Adam just gave it to me.
I just wanted the
FBI to admit that
Rafi was innocent.
SAM:
Mia, Mia.
We know.
Ambrose, here,
is gonna admit it on record.
And then he's gonna
release Gavin.
SAM: We're gonna put that guy in jail
for as long as we can.
All this time
I believed him.
And he was the one responsible
for Rafi's death.
MIA: I don't care
if I go to jail,
I'll do whatever it takes
to make sure Adam pays
for what he did.
We good?
Uh...
not so fast.
He apologize to you?
To me? No.
On behalf of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation,
I apologize for...
getting you into this mess.
SAM: I didn't hear
any heart.
He's the tin man
in a suit.
What's gonna happen to Mia?
We're questioning her,
but given her history,
it's unlikely that we'll
press any charges.
One more thing...
Thanks, I don't
need a shrink, man.
Well, maybe a friend.
Kudos, Mr. Callen.
Assistant Director Granger
sends you a gold star.
Ah, well, send it to Mia.
She devoted her life
to clearing Rafi's name.
She devoted her whole
life to the truth.
She's a kindred spirit.
ERIC:
Headed home?
Yep. No plans tonight.
Or any other night.
For the foreseeable future.
Okay.
Unless of course
the monster truck rally
comes back into town.
Uh, Kensi and I
went last night.
It was pretty awesome.
Good night.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Night.
Monster truck rally?
(scoffs)
Hmm.
HETTY: I'm surprised I didn't
bump into them.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==